# HW03

## HW3.2. Exponential Growth and Decay

The simplest first order models are those in which the rate of change of the population is proportional to the current population. These processes can either represent growth (if the proportionality constant is positive) or decay (if the proportionality constant is negative).

The equations below give the differential equation for a population which grows exponentially, together with the solution:

$$
\begin{align*} &\frac{dP}{dt} =  r P \qquad P(0) = P_0 & \\ &P(t) = P_0 e^{ r t} &  \end{align*}
$$

---

Growth rates are often given in terms of doubling times: A doubling time of four years means that after four years have passed the population is twice the original population.

If the doubling time for a particular model is $T = 17$ years, find the constant $r$.

Ans:
$$
r=0.0408yr^{-1}
$$

The equations below give the differential equation for a population which decays exponentially, together with the solution:

$$
\begin{align*} &\frac{dP}{dt} =  -r P \qquad P(0) = P_0 & \\ &P(t) = P_0 e^{ -r t} &  \end{align*}
$$

Decay rates, particularly for radioactive decay problems, are frequently given in terms of the half-life: A half-life of seven thousand years means that after seven thousand years have passed the population is half of the original population.

If the half-life for a particular model is $T = 8922$ years, find the constant $r$.

Ans:
$$
r =0.000078yr^{-1}
$$

## HW3.7. 555 Timer Simulation Questions Part 1

 These questions assume that you have opened the Jupyter notebook titled 555 Timer Simulation. If you have not yet done this please do so now.

---

As resistance $r$ is increased the amount of time that the circuit spends in `charging mode`

As resistance $r$ is increased the amount of time that the circuit spends in `discharging mode`

As resistance $R$ is increased the amount of time that the circuit spends in `charging mode`

As resistance $R$ is increased the amount of time that the circuit spends in `discharging mode`

## HW3.8. 555 Timer Questions Part 2

This problem considers the dynamics of a 555 timer. If you have not yet opened and run the 555 timer Jupyter notebook please do so now.

 We will use $V_c(t)$ to denote the voltage drop across the capacitor at time $t$.
 Suppose that at time $0$ the timer is in dicharging mode, and that the voltage drop across the capacitor is $\frac23$ of the supplied voltage, or $6$ volts:

$$
C R \frac{dV_c}{dt} =  - V_c \qquad V_c(0) = 6
$$

Solve the differential equation to find $V_c(t)$ in terms of $R,C,t$. Recall that you must explicitly represent multiplications with \*, and that the exponential function can be represented by exp(). You might find it easiest to solve the equation using the fact that it is separable, though you can also use the fact that it is linear.

Ans:
$$
V_C = 6*exp(-t/(R*C))
$$

The 555 will remain in discharge mode until the voltage across the capacitor reaches $\frac13$ of the external voltage, or $3$ volts.

Use the solution of the differential equation to find the time $t_2$ at which $V_c(t)=3$ volts. Use log() to denote the natural log.

The quantity $t_2$ represents the length of a discharge cycle. You may want to write down this quantity as it will be needed on the next problem.

Ans:
$$
t_2 = R*C*log(2)
$$

## HW3.9. 555 Timer Questions Part 3

This problem focuses on the 555 timer. If you have not yet run the 555 Timer Simulation Jupyter notebook please do so now.
Throughout this problem $V_c(t)$ denotes the voltage drop across the capacitor, $V$ represents the externally supplied voltage (a constant), $r$ and $R$ are the values of the two resistors, and $C$ is the value of the capacitor.

 Suppose that at time $t=0$ the timer is in charging mode, and that the voltage drop across the capacitor is $3$ volts:

$$
  (r+R)C \frac{dV_c}{dt} = 9 - V_c \qquad V_c(0) = 3
$$

Solve the differential equation to find $V_c(t)$ in terms of $r,R,C,t.$ Recall that you must explicitly represent multiplications with \*, and that the exponential function can be represented by exp(). It is probably easiest to solve using the fact that it is separable, although you can also use the fact that it is linear together with an integrating factor. Your solution should be in the form of the sum of a constant plus a decaying exponential.

Ans:
$$
  V_C = 9-6*exp(-t/((r+R)*C))
$$

---

Since the external voltage supply is $9$ volts the 555 will remain in charge mode until the voltage reaches $\frac23$ of this voltage, or $6$ volts.

Use the solution of the differential equation to find the time $t1$ at which $V_c(t)=6$ volts as a function of $r,R,C$. Use log() to denote the natural log.

Ans:
$$
  t_1 = (r+R)*C*log(2)
$$

The quantity $t_1$ represents the length of a charging cycle. You may want to write down this quantity as it will be needed on a later problem.
