# HW06

## HW6.1. Find a particular solution

 Find a particular solution to the equation

$$
              \frac{d^2y}{dt^2} - 2 \frac{dy}{dt} + y = \frac{e^{t}}{t}
$$

 Please use exp(a\*t) to denote the exponential function $e^{at}$. Do not use e^(at).

---

 Powers may be denoted by \*\*: for instance $t^2$ = t\*\*2

Ans: $y(t)$ = `t*(ln(t)-1)*e**t` = $t(ln(t)-1)e^t$

## HW6.2. Variation of Parameters

 Find the solution to

$$
\qquad\frac{d^2y}{dt^2} +  y = \frac{1}{\cos^3(t)}  \quad y(0)=0 \quad y'(0)=0
$$

Ans: $\qquad y(t) = \frac{\sin^{2}{\left(t \right)}}{\cos{\left(t \right)}} + \frac{\cos{\left(t \right)}}{2} - \frac{1}{2 \cos{\left(t \right)}}$

## HW6.3. Variation of Parameters

 Find the solution to

$$
\qquad\frac{d^2y}{dt^2} +  y = \frac{1}{\cos(t)}  \quad y(0)=0 \quad y'(0)=0
$$

You may denote the natural logarithm by either $\log$ or $\ln$; the system treats them as equivalent and will automatically convert "$\ln$" to "$\log$" upon submission.

You should assume that $\cos(t)>0$ --  DO NOT include the absolute value.

 Use cosine and sine, not secant or cosecant. The system may falsely treat answers with secant or cosecant as incorrect, so use sines and cosines only.

Ans: $\qquad y(t) = t \sin{\left(t \right)} + \log{\left(\cos{\left(t \right)} \right)} \cos{\left(t \right)}$

## HW6.4. Find the Laplace transform of $y(t)$

 Suppose that $y(t)$ solves the following differential equation

$$
              \frac{dy}{dt} + 3 y  = t^{ 3 }e^{ 4 t} \qquad y(0) = -3
$$

Find an expression for the Laplace transform of $y(t):$ that is $Y(s) = {\mathcal L}(y).$

You DO NOT need to solve for $y(t)$ itself.

You DO NOT need to simplify your expression using partial fractions.

Ans: $Y(s)=\frac{6 - 3 \left(s - 4\right)^{4}}{\left(s - 4\right)^{4} \left(s + 3\right)}$

## HW6.5. Find the Laplace transform of $y(t)$

 Suppose that $y(t)$ solves the following differential equation

$$
              \frac{d^2y}{dt^2} + 2\frac{dy}{dt}  + 2 y  = t^{ 3 }e^{ 4 t} \qquad y(0) = 2; ~~ \frac{dy}{dt}(0) = 2;
$$

Find the Laplace transform of $y(t):$ that is $Y(s) = {\mathcal L}(y).$

You DO NOT need to solve for $y(t)$ itself.

You DO NOT need to simplify your expression using partial fractions.

Ans: $Y(s)=\frac{\left(s - 4\right)^{4} \left(2 s + 6\right) + 6}{\left(s - 4\right)^{4} \left(s^{2} + 2 s + 2\right)}$
